Ch 09

1 MB : reasonable for profile pics; about 25 microsoft word pages

libro usa @ in front of is_uploaded_file, get_image_size and move_uploaded_file
para suprimir el error y manejarlo con handle_error
function () or handle_error
si pareas @ con handle_eror custom function ademas de una variable debug mode
entonces podrias ver errores en debug mode y suprimirlos o loguearlos en normal mode  


do you have a handle error equivalent ? do you get to that page displayinh "Error ... " .  Does "error" needs to be a view on getmain content?


find out your max size file size : there is one in php.ini and another is set at your html 

how do you set directory listing? it is good for debugging but unsafe ....

use firebug debugger tool : getfirebug.com

write a small script to show $_SERVER['DOCUMENT_ROOT']

in my program i am not storing neiither absolute nor relative paths in my database,
i am simply storing the filename (image name) !?!?

if using a single database with multiple web servers ... 
or changing web hosting providers ...
there is a disadvantage when storing images on your web server. You would have to store the same image in every web server ?!?!? 


Ch 10 : all your app including your images ... inside the database ... skip for now

Ch 11 admin interfaces
	list all user, link to user profiles, delete users (multiple)... confirm before delete, update users information, give priviledges to some users
	
	list: with pics, allow multiple users selection
	
	deleting: 
		1-write a short and quick delete user, with no 2nd chance warnings or anything just delete
		
		A script like delete which sends HTTP location headers, cannot do any output either before or after sending those headers...
		it just deletes a user and redirects output to a view script.
			-exit(): used to guarantiee nothing else is done after redirecting
		
		2-on a second version you can 
			use javascript confirm to give the user a warning 
				on html use href='javascript:functionName()'
				functionName() is a javascript function defined on your <script> section of your showUsers.php html
				it calls a php script on your server to delete users. window.location = delete users.php?user= + id
				the delete php script uses HTTP location headers to call back your show users php file
			use php inside <script> section of show users, to decide (with isset) whether or not to show an alert after a user has been deleted
			that is, inside javascript <script> section of showusers.php, php isset() decides whether or not javascript window.onload = function() { alert( msgFromDelete) }
			runs or not
				that is - you can use php inside javascript, just like you use php inside html
 
			-delete must send messages to the view script after it with (success or fail messages)
			-so the view script must be ready to receive potential messages

		3- www.jqueryui.com/demos/dialog and modal confirm windows - use on the confirm BEFORE deleting users
		
		Standard messages: ( replaces javascript alert() )
		4- use feedback messages (like those with bootstrap colors) 
			... AFTER deleting, to say 'yeah you deleted this or that'
			... when unable to delete, 'only an admin can do that...'

		a function dislpay_message() : that receives $msg and $httmlClass as parameters
			$htmlClass can be predefined using define() in php
		a function display_messages() : can call display_message () many times with diferent pre defined htmlClasses
			when $msg is null, this function will not call display_message() using is_null( $msg )

		a function to handle the html head section plus any POSSIBLE javascript

		all this functions can be placed in a file containing utility view functions view.php

		
			
	heredoc : mark the beginning and end of text ... everithing in between treated as pure text ... no need to escape characters
	sprintf : great for inserting into databases, but can use it anywhere
	
	
Use few top level functions that at the same time call more(many) smaller functions, each dealing with specific tasks.
	you should get a cleaner code at the top level
	you should get a nice variety of smaller functions that you can combine in a variety of ways

Ch 12 : secure them

with basic authenticacion, you send two headers and you can obtain what the user entered on the screen using $_SERVER

what if you do an while( !isset ... ) {headers} on page 391 ? 

once username and password are entered, the browser recalls the script from the top.  p392 it's almost as though the server is giving you a 
free while loop
		while( wrong credentials ) { askk for credentials again }


As long as you dont close the browser, you can access pages using the same realm without introducing your credentials again...


Can you make a login, so that the password is sent everytime to a cell phone ?!?! Like Amazon verification...
Use JQuery for validation on form ... passwords, jquery plugins etc

postgre equivalent of real escape 

php crypt